---
title: "CDB: Optimizing Queries with Crowd-Based Selections and Joins"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/1-2017-5-14-sigmod
date: 2017-5-14
venue: 'SIGMOD'
citation: 'G. Li, C. Chai, J. Fan, X. Weng, J. Li, Y. Zheng, Y. Li, X. Yu, X. Zhang, <b>H. Yuan</b>, etc. &quot;CDB: Optimizing Queries with Crowd-Based Selections and Joins.&quot; In <i>SIGMOD</i>, 2017. <a href="https://yuanhaitao.github.io/files/sigmod2017.pdf">pdf</a>'
---

Abstract
======
   Crowdsourcing database systems have been proposed to leverage crowd-powered operations to encapsulate the complexities of interacting with the crowd. 
   Existing systems suffer from two major limitations. 
   Firstly, in order to optimize a query, they often adopt the traditional tree model to select an optimized table-level join order. 
   However, the tree model provides a coarse-grained optimization, which generates the same order for different joined tuples and limits the optimization potential that different joined tuples can be optimized by different orders. 
   Secondly, they mainly focus on optimizing the monetary cost. 
   In fact, there are three optimization goals (i.e., smaller monetary cost, lower latency, and higher quality) in crowdsourcing, and it calls for a system to enable multi-goal optimization. 
   To address the limitations, we develop a crowd-powered database system CDB that supports crowd-based query optimizations, with focus on join and selection. CDB has fundamental differences from existing systems. 
   First, CDB employs a graph-based query model that provides more fine-grained query optimization. Second, CDB adopts a unified framework to perform the multi-goal optimization based on the graph model. We have implemented our system and deployed it on AMT, CrowdFlower and ChinaCrowd. 
   We have also created a benchmark for evaluating crowd-powered databases. 
   We have conducted both simulated and real experiments, and the experimental results demonstrate the performance superiority of CDB on cost, latency and quality.  
   
Conclusion
======
We developed a crowd-powered database system CDB. 
CDB adopted a graph-based query model which can provide tuple-level graph optimization. 
With the graph model, CDB employed a unified framework to perform the multi-goal optimization. 
We formulated the task selection problem which minimizes the number of tasks to be crowdsourced, proved that the problem is NP-hard and devised greedy algorithms to select high-quality tasks. 
We developed effective algorithms to reduce latency. We optimized the quality by devising more sophisticated quality-control strategies. We have implemented CDB and deployed it into AMT and CrowdFlower. 
Experimental results demonstrate CDB outperformed existing studies in terms of cost, latency and quality. 