---
title: "CDB: Optimizing Queries with Crowd-Based Selections and Joins"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2017-5-14-sigmod
date: 2017-5-14
venue: 'DASFAA'
citation: 'G. Li, C. Chai, J. Fan, X. Weng, J. Li, Y. Zheng, Y. Li, X Yu, X Zhang, <b>H. Yuan</b>, etc. &quot;MathGraph: A Knowledge Graph for Automatically Solving Mathematical Exercises.&quot; In <i>SIGMOD</i>, 2017. <a href="https://yuanhaitao.github.io/files/sigmod2017.pdf">pdf</a>'
---

Abstract
======
   Crowdsourcing database systems have been proposed to lever- age crowd-powered operations to encapsulate the complex- ities of interacting with the crowd. Existing systems suffer from two major limitations. Firstly, in order to optimize a query, they often adopt the traditional tree model to se- lect an optimized table-level join order. However, the tree model provides a coarse-grained optimization, which gener- ates the same order for different joined tuples and limits the optimization potential that different joined tuples can be op- timized by different orders. Secondly, they mainly focus on optimizing the monetary cost. In fact, there are three op- timization goals (i.e., smaller monetary cost, lower latency, and higher quality) in crowdsourcing, and it calls for a sys- tem to enable multi-goal optimization.
   To address the limitations, we develop a crowd-powered database system CDB that supports crowd-based query opti- mizations, with focus on join and selection. CDB has funda- mental differences from existing systems. First, CDB employs a graph-based query model that provides more fine-grained query optimization. Second, CDB adopts a unified framework to perform the multi-goal optimization based on the graph model. We have implemented our system and deployed it on AMT, CrowdFlower and ChinaCrowd. We have also cre- ated a benchmark for evaluating crowd-powered databases. We have conducted both simulated and real experiments, and the experimental results demonstrate the performance superiority of CDB on cost, latency and quality.
   
Conclusion
======
We developed a crowd-powered database system CDB. CDB adopted a graph-based query model which can provide tuple- level graph optimization. With the graph model, CDB em- ployed a unified framework to perform the multi-goal opti- mization. We formulated the task selection problem which minimizes the number of tasks to be crowdsourced, proved that the problem is NP-hard and devised greedy algorithms to select high-quality tasks. We developed effective algo- rithms to reduce latency. We optimized the quality by devis- ing more sophisticated quality-control strategies. We have implemented CDB and deployed it into AMT and Crowd- Flower. Experimental results demonstrate CDB outperformed existing studies in terms of cost, latency and quality.