---
title: "Distributed In-Memory Trajectory Similarity Search and Join on Road Network"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/3-2019-4-12-icde
date: 2019-4-12
venue: 'ICDE'
citation: '<b>H. Yuan</b>, G. Li. &quot;Distributed In-Memory Trajectory Similarity Search and Join on Road Network.&quot; In <i>ICDE</i>, 2019. <a href="https://yuanhaitao.github.io/files/icde2019.pdf">pdf</a>'
---

Abstract
======
   Many applications, e.g., Uber, collect large-scale trajectory data from moving vehicles on road network. 
   Trajectory data analytics can benefit many real-world applications, such as route planning and transportation optimizations. 
   Two core operations in trajectory data analytics are trajectory similarity search and join, and both of them rely on a trajectory similarity function to measure the similarity between two trajectories. 
   However, existing similarity functions focus on trajectory points distance and neglect the fact the trajectories should be on road network. 
   Obviously aligning trajectories on road network can remove the noise points introduced by system errors. 
   Toward this goal, we define a road-network-aware trajectory similarity function to measure trajectory similarity. 
   To support trajectory similarity search and join, we propose a filtering-refine framework. 
   In the filtering step, we compute a signature of each trajectory such that if two trajectories are similar, they must share a common signature. 
   We utilize the signatures to prune a huge number of dissimilar pairs. 
   In the refine step, we design effective algorithms to verify the candidates that are not pruned in the filtering step. 
   To support large-scale trajectories, we develop a system DISON for Distributed In-Memory Trajectory Similarity Search and Join on Road Network. 
   DISON splits trajectories into disjoint partitions by considering load balance and locality, and designs effective global index to prune irrelevant partitions. 
   Extensive experiments on real datasets showed that our method achieved high effectiveness, efficiency, and scalability and outperformed existing solutions significantly.  
    
Conclusion
======
We proposed a road-network-aware trajectory similarity function. 
We designed a filtering-refine framework to solve trajectory similarity search and join problem. 
We designed a scalable distributed framework for processing large-scale trajectories. 
We proposed an effective partitioning strategy, built global index for these partitions and local inverted index for each partition. 
We designed effective global pruning and local search algorithms to filter irrelative partitions and dissimilar trajectories. 
Extensive experiments on real datasets verified the effectiveness of our similarity function and efficiency and scalability of our centralized and distributed methods.