---
title: "Coupled Graph Convolutional Neural Networks for Text-oriented Clinical Diagnosis Inference"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/5-2020-4-22-dasfaa
date: 2020-4-22
venue: 'DASFAA'
citation: 'N. Liu, W. Zhang, X. Li, <b>H. Yuan</b>. &quot;Coupled Graph Convolutional Neural Networks for Text-oriented Clinical Diagnosis Inference.&quot; In <i>DASFAA</i>, 2020. <a href="https://yuanhaitao.github.io/files/dasfaa2020.pdf">pdf</a>'
---

Abstract
======
   Text-oriented clinical diagnosis inference is to predict a set of diagnoses for a specific patient given its medical notes. Due to the great potential of automatic diagnosis inference, machine learning methods have began to be applied to this domain. However, existing approaches focus on performing either labor-intensive feature engineering or sequen- tial modeling of each medical note separately, without considering the in- formation sharing among similar patients, which is essential for evidence- based medicine, an emerging new diagnosis process. Motivated by this issue and the recently proposed graph convolutional network (GCN) for text classification, we propose to apply GCN for the text-oriented clin- ical diagnosis inference task. To encode the comorbidity of diagnoses into the GCN model and allow information sharing between patients, we devise a coupled graph convolutional neural networks (CGCN), where a note-dependent graph and a label-dependent graph are learned col- laboratively with hyperplane projection to ensure they are in the same semantic space. The comprehensive results on two real datasets show that our method outperforms the state-of-art methods in text-oriented diagnosis inference.  
    
Conclusion
======
In this paper, we propose a novel coupled graph neural network (CGCN) in the clinical diagnosis inference. We emphasize the challenges of the text based clini- cal diagnosis inference and take the information sharing and disease comorbidity into the consideration and use a hyperplane projection method to project the diagnosis embeddings into the related hyperplane of the patient embeddings. The CGCN outperforms the baselines on several datasets. We have shown that the information sharing and disease comorbidity are essential in the clinical di- agnosis inference and need to be further studied in the computer aided diagnosis inference systems.