---
title: "Automatic View Generation with Deep Learning and Reinforcement Learning"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/6-2020-4-20-icde
date: 2020-4-20
venue: 'ICDE'
citation: '<b>H. Yuan</b>, G. Li, L. Feng, J. Sun, Y. Han. &quot;Automatic View Generation with Deep Learning and Reinforcement Learning.&quot; In <i>ICDE</i>, 2020. <a href="https://yuanhaitao.github.io/files/icde2020.pdf">pdf</a>'
---

Abstract
======
   Materializing views is an important method to re- duce redundant computations in DBMS, especially for processing large scale analytical queries. However, many existing methods still need DBAs to manually generate materialized views, which are not scalable to a large number of database instances, especially on the cloud database. To address this problem, we propose an automatic view generation method which judiciously selects “highly beneficial” subqueries to generate materialized views. However, there are two challenges. (1) How to estimate the benefit of using a materialized view for a query? (2) How to select optimal subqueries to generate materialized views? To address the first challenge, we propose a neural network based method to estimate the benefit of using a materialized view to answer a query. In particular, we extract significant features from different perspectives and design effective encoding models to transform these features into hidden representations. To address the second challenge, we model this problem to an ILP (Integer Linear Programming) problem, which aims to maximize the utility by selecting optimal subqueries to materialize. We design an iterative optimization method to select subqueries to materialize. However, this method cannot guarantee the convergence of the solution. To address this issue, we model the iterative optimization process as an MDP (Markov Decision Process) and use the deep reinforcement learning model to solve the problem. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms existing solutions by 28.4%, 8.8% and 31.7% on three real-world datasets.
       
Conclusion
======
We proposed an end-to-end view selection system by automatically selecting the most beneficial subqueries to material- ize. We proposed an effective deep learning model to estimate the cost of a query with a materialized view. We extracted significant features from different kinds of information, such as query/view plans and query/view input tables. We modeled the materialized view selection problem as an ILP problem. We proposed an iterative optimization method to get the approximate optimal solution. We transformed ILP as an MDP and used the reinforcement learning technique DQN to solve it. Extensive experiments showed that our methods outperformed state-of-the-art by 28.4%, 8.8% and 31.7% on three datasets.