---
title: "Effective Travel Time Estimation: When Historical Trajectories over Road Networks Matter"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/7-2020-6-14-sigmod
date: 2020-6-14
venue: 'SIGMOD'
citation: '<b>H. Yuan</b>, G. Li, Z. Bao, L. Feng. &quot;Effective Travel Time Estimation: When Historical Trajectories over Road Networks Matter.&quot; In <i>ICDE</i>, 2020. <a href="https://yuanhaitao.github.io/files/sigmod2020.pdf">pdf</a>'
---

Abstract
======
   In this paper, we study the problem of origin-destination (OD) travel time estimation where the OD input consists of an OD pair and a departure time. We propose a novel neural network based prediction model that fully exploits an important fact neglected by the literature -- for a past OD trip its travel time is usually affiliated with the trajectory it travels along, whereas it does not exist during prediction.
   At the training phase, our goal is to design novel representations for the OD input and its affiliated trajectory, such that they are close to each other in the latent space.
   In particular, we train the model as follows to achieve the above. First, we match the OD pairs and their affiliated (historical) trajectories to road networks}, and utilize road segment embeddings to represent their spatial properties. Later, we match the timestamps associated with trajectories to time slots and utilize time slot embeddings to represent the temporal properties. Next, we build a temporal graph to capture the weekly and daily periodicity of time slot embeddings. Last, we design an effective encoding to represent the spatial and temporal properties of trajectories. To bind each OD input to its affiliated trajectory, we also encode the OD input into a hidden representation, and make the hidden representation close to the spatio-temporal representation of the trajectory. 
   At the prediction phase, we get the hidden representation of the OD input and use it to generate the travel time. 
   Extensive experiments on real datasets show that our method achieves high effectiveness and outperforms existing methods significantly.      

Conclusion
======
In this paper, we studied the problem of OD travel time estimation, where the input consists of an origin-destination pair and a departure time. We proposed a comprehensive and novel neural network based approach that is able to fully exploit historical trajectories associated with the OD input.  We mapped points into road segments to represent their spatial features. We initialized road segment embeddings with road networks to capture the structural info of road segments. We defined time slots to represent the temporal features. We built the temporal graph to initialize time slot embeddings to capture the weekly and daily periodicity. We design novel representations for the OD pair and its corresponding trajectory, such that they are close to each other in the latent space. We proposed an effective encoding model to encode the spatio-temporal properties of trajectories. In particular, for a trajectory, we encoded each segment's properties and applied a sequence model to  get the final representation. 
Extensive experiments on real datasets verified the effectiveness of our proposed model.